---
layout: post
title:  "Flexbox"
date:   2017-09-04
tags:
  - flexbox
  - html
  - css
description: "Flexbox is a great way to make a site responsive. The size, spacing and positioning of the boxes can be adjusted according to the screen size."
excerpt_separator:  <!--more-->
---
[Flexbox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout/Using_CSS_flexible_boxes) is a great way to make a site responsive. The size, spacing and positioning of the boxes can be adjusted according to the screen size.

This is [tutorial](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/) by CSS-Tricks gives a good overview of how to implement this CSS class and its attributes.

Adding the property `display: flex` to the parent element makes it a flex container. All underlying children are automatically flex items.

## Properties of the flex container
- **flex-direction**
  - `row` (default): left to right.
  - `row-reverse`: right to left.
  - `column`: top to bottom.
  - `column-reverse`: bottom to top.
- **flex-wrap**
  - `wrap`
  - `wrap-reverse`
  - `nowrap` (default)
- **flex-flow**: combines both the flex-direction and flex-wrap in a single property.
- **justify-content**: horizontal alignment of the elements.
  - `flex-start`: to the left.
  - `flex-end`: to the right.
  - `center`: in the center.
  - `space-between`: evenly distributed with first element at the start and last element at the end.
  - `space-around`: evenly distributed with equal space around them.
  - `space-evenly`: spacing between any two elements (and the space to the edges) is equal.
- **align-items**: vertical alignment of the elements.
  - `flex-start`: at the top.
  - `flex-end`: at the bottom.
  - `center`: centered.
  - `baseline`: baseline of the elements are aligned.
  - `stretch`: stretch vertically to fill the container.
- **align-content**: vertical alignment when there are multiple rows.
  - `flex-start`: to the start of the container.
  - `flex-end`: to the end of the container.
  - `center`: to the center of the container.
  - `space-between`: evenly distributed.
  - `space-around`: evenly distributed with equal space around each line.
  - `stretch` (default): stretch to take up the remaining space.

## Properties of the flex item
- **order**: change the order of the items.
- **flex-grow**: allows item to grow by setting a relative number.
- **flex-shrink**: allows item to shrink.
- **flex-basis**: default size of an item before the remaining space is distributed. Can be set in percentage, rem, etc. If it is set to `auto` it looks at the width and height property of the item.
- **flex**: combines `flex-grow`, `flex-shrink` and `flex-basis`. Default is `0 1 auto`.
- **align-self**: vertically align an individual item.

## Examples
Following the CSS-Tricks tutorial I created some examples using the flexbox class.

<p data-height="265" data-theme-id="0" data-slug-hash="jLJdjq" data-default-tab="css,result" data-user="buzzmeekz" data-embed-version="2" data-pen-title="Flexbox Examples" class="codepen">See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/buzzmeekz/pen/jLJdjq/">Flexbox Examples</a> by Miguel Tavares (<a href="https://codepen.io/buzzmeekz">@buzzmeekz</a>) on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</p>
<script async src="https://production-assets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>


Also check out this cool [game](http://flexboxfroggy.com/) where you have to move frogs around a screen to help you learn the flexbox basics.

